{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ## Different Macro Features\
\
The possibilities for curves representing the overall macro structure of the local environment are as follows:\
\
1.  Curves fitting through the anchor points of the articulated robot.  Anchor points are the \'93confirmed\'94 contacts and can approximate the walls.  However, these are sparse data points, and cannot handle complex environments such as junctions or gaps between the anchor points.   Data is sparse and not well-representative of the environment.\
\
2.  Polygon created from alpha shape of posture image.    Use the edges of the polygon and perform scan-matching of edges to edges.  Problem, how to select the points pairs between two polygons.   Use angle filter and match two sides together.    Is sensitive to missing data.  Unsweeped gap will distort the polygon.  Performing matches on a distorted polygon will result in poor ICP fitting.\
\
3. 	Given alpha shape, compute the medial axis of the interior.  This is known to be a reduction and representation of the the space.  This approach is resistant to noisy edges.  Shown are some example of the results with simple single path pipes, and pipes with some junction features.   Notice that the information on the width of the environment is lost using this approach.  \
\
}