{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ##Aggregate Pose Constraint Mapping\
\
Instead of creating geometric constraints between individual poses and struggling to search for which acceptable matches between poses, another approach we can take is to make a constraint between a new posture image and all of the other posture images in aggregate.  In this way, we can avoid the difficulty of making individual pairwise constraints between poses.\
\
The approach we take is to find the union of all past posture images together and compute the alpha shape from that.  From the alpha shape we then compute the medial axis.  This results in a much larger version of the medial axis curve representation.\
\
To constrain the pose of the new posture image, simply perform ICP between the pose's medial axis curve and the past whole map medial axis.  The result can be seen in the figure X.    Like the inter-pose constraint, we have the invariant condition that the new pose's medial axis curve partially overlaps the global medial axis.  Therefore, there exists a section of the global medial axis curve that the new pose at least partially overlaps.  For poses that are backtracking through previously visited territory, the new pose will be completely overlapped by the global medial axis.\
\
This is a maximum likelihood mapping approach.  That is, the mapping method looks for the best possible result for the current pose.  All past poses are fixed and unable to be changed.  Should we ever make a significant mistake in the placement of the current pose, this will be permanently reflected in the map for the future.\
\
Even using this simplistic approach, a significant translational error along the axis of travel in a straight section of the environment does not have severe consequences to the map.  Along a straight section of the pipe, the current pose can be placed anywhere along that section with little consequence to the structural and topological properties of the map.   The only thing that is affected is the current best estimate of the robot's pose.\
\
The mapping system is able to localize the pose much better with respect to curved shape features in the environment.  If there are sharp junctions or curved sections, the current pose can be localized with much better accuracy.\
\
Once the current pose's posture image given it's most likely location, it is added to the existing set S and the union->alpha shape->global medial axis is recomputed.  If the robot is pushing the frontier of the map, this will result in an extension of the medial axis.   If the posture image pose is an incorrect position, the resultant global medial axis can be corrupted and result in kinks (distortions, discrepancies).  These kinks can compound future errors and result in even further distorted maps.\
}