{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ##Problem [position:problem]\
\
\
\
Now that our snake robot is capable of moving through the environment with the adaptive concertina gait behavior, we need some way of estimating how far it is moving and in which direction.\
\
As we established earlier, we have no external sensors because we assume their failure from environmental conditions.  We cannot rely on GPS since it is not effective underground or in pipes.  We do not have wheeled shaft encoders since we have no wheels and do not expect to always travel through flat terrain.  Finally, although it may indeed help, we cannot expect to make use of an inertial navigation system since they are bulky and expensive.  Furthermore, we have not performed experiments to determine if they are capable of handling the high amount of rotation of each of the snake body segments during locomotion.\
\
In absence of a global positioning or odometry, we need some form of alternative motion estimation. Knowing where the robot is located is the basic building block of creating a map.  We focus on the problem of finding the relative geometric transform between the two poses at the beginning and end of one step of the adaptive concertina gait. \
\
But we first need to define how we will represent the position and orientation of the robot in space.}