{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
Mobile proprioceptive spatial mapping.  That is, contact-based sensing\
\
- mobile, other systems are not\
- other systems focus on contact points, we find that it is faster to use the robot's body to capture void space\
- Dubowsky and Mazzini show how to use "Whole-Arm Exploration" to capture detailed contact data using geometric contact detection and an exploration strategy.  Detail can be bounded by a constant.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
had to think long and hard about what Behrokh and Ram said during the defense.\'a0 It is true that there is *some* contact information in my approach as they pointed out.\'a0 In fact, I have built a lousy contact sensor.\'a0 So what is my contribution if I've just built a lousy sensor?\'a0 Have I pointlessly handicapped myself?\
\
I think I have two major contributions.\
\
1) I have built a tactile mapping system that is *mobile*\
2) I first utilized void space detection as the complement to existing contact sensing methods\
\
For 1), all existing contact mapping approaches are in a fixed configuration sp	ace or on the end of a tether or linkage.\'a0 My approach is the first to use tactile sensors to map on a mobile robot.\
\
For 2), in existing range-sensor based mapping approaches, the sensor gives two types of information.\'a0 The range and heading of the detected obstacle, and the implicit information that every point in between is void space. \'a0 For a tactile mapping strategy, all existing approaches use the detected contact point as the sole input.\'a0 The analogous void space information is not provided.\'a0 We show that the complementary void space information can be obtained from the geometry of the robot and it's linkage.\'a0 We show how to build maps with just the void space data and show that it trades a lower resolution for increased speed.\
\
That's it.\'a0 Those are the two major contributions that no one else has done.\'a0 It is true that I can probably improve my performance by utilizing the contact information from my sensor or even building a better sensor.\'a0 But the current approach allowed me to highlight and develop the two contributions.\
\
> \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For the second point, isn't some SLAM using the void space to build maps? For example, DARPA and google's driving cars.\'a0\
\
Yes of course.\'a0 I was saying that all range sensors have void space information as well as boundary information.\'a0\'a0 However for the corresponding contact sensor approaches, they only use boundary information.\'a0 My approach is the only one that shows how to get void space information in a contact sensing paradigm and then use it to map.\
\
I guess I should follow up with why I can't use the existing SLAM methods with my sensor data.\
\
Most SLAM methods depend on having a wealth of boundary and void space information (mostly boundary) on which to operate.\'a0 Sometimes features are extracted and used as landmarks.\'a0 Sometimes occupancy information is plotted into a grid, both the void and boundary.\
\
Regardless, there is no SLAM method that works only on void space information.\'a0 Without range sensors, I needed to either build detailed contact information through the time-consuming probing or contact detection methods or design a mapping method that works with primarily void space.\
\
I chose to build the mapping method with void space.}