{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In many real-world environments such as flooded pipes or caves, exteroceptive sensors, such as vision, range or touch, often fail to give any useful information for robotic tasks.  This may result from complete sensor failure or incompatibility with the ambient environment. \
\
\
Environments such as pipes and caves are difficult to robotically map because they are opaque and confined.  An environment is opaque when external range and vision sensors are inoperable because of lighting conditions, environmental fluids, or tight proximity to obstacles.  An environment is confined when a robot\'92s mobility is restricted by the close proximity to multiple obstacles.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 These environments often render range sensors ineffective due to occlusions, distortions, reflections, and time-of-flight issues
\b0 .  Changing visibility and lighting conditions will impact the usefulness of vision sensors.  Hazardous environments may also damage fragile external touch sensors.  This forces us to rely on a strictly proprioceptive approach for building environmental information.  Such sensors include accelerometers and joint sensors.  
\b This sensor information is by definition, highly local to the robot\'92s position and sets us at a disadvantage to other mapping approaches that traditionally build maps with large sweeps of range data. 
\b0  We have fundamentally less information with which to build maps and make exploration decisions.\
\
An unstructured and irregular environment will require an agile robot with an equally agile locomotion approach.  For instance, a wheeled robot may not be capable of traversing through a complicated cave artery or debris pile but a snake robot will be able to.  Also, the geometry of the robot should not limit its ability to navigate.  For instance, a spherical robot may be able to go through a pipe of sufficient diameter, but if there is a brief pinch in the passage, the robot will not be able to continue.  The robot should be able to reposition itself to fit within the contours of the environment.\
\

\b Global positioning information is also unavailable because of the enclosed nature of the environment.
\b0   Therefore, any mapping method will need an accurate motion estimation approach for the robot.  Wheeled dead-reckoning may be very difficult or impossible if the environment is highly unstructured or otherwise untenable to a wheeled locomotion approach.  Another method must be found.\
\
\
We address the following challenges: 1) How does the robot move and locomote in a confined environment without exteroception?  2) How is the distance traveled by a snake robot measured with no odometry and no exteroception?  3) How does the robot sense the environment with only proprioception?  4)  How is the map built with the information available?  5) How is the map corrected for visiting the same location twice, i.e. loop-closing?  6)  How does the robot navigate and explore with the constructed map?\
\
\
In order to move through the environment, the robot needs to have a solution for motion planning and collision-reaction.  In an exteroceptive approach, we would detect and avoid obstacles at a distance.  If collisions were made, touch sensors could detect them and we could react appropriately.  With only proprioceptive sensors, indirect methods are needed for reacting to obstacles.  A series of motion methods are used to solve these problems including compliant locomotion, compliant path-following, safe-anchoring, stability assurance, slip detection, and dead-end detection.\
\
While moving through the environment, the snake robot needs some means of measuring the distance traveled.  Wheeled robots usually have some form of shaft encoder to measure rotations of the wheels to estimate distance traveled.  In addition, range or vision sensors are capable of tracking changes in the environment to estimate position of the robot.   GPS is not feasible because of its unreliable operation in underground environments.  Our proprioceptive approach achieves motion estimation by anchoring multiple points of the body with the environment and kinematically tracking the change in distance as the snake contracts and extends.   This gives us a rudimentary motion estimation method whose effectiveness we measure in a series of experiments.\
\
Some method is needed to sense the environment.  In an exteroceptive approach, vision and range sensors would give us a wealth of information about the obstacles in the environment at great distances.  Touch sensors would give us a binary status of contact with an obstacle or not.  With only proprioceptive joint sensors, our approach is to kinematically compute the occupancy of the robot\'92s body in the environment and record the presence of free space over time.  Using this information, we can indirectly infer obstacles on the boundary of free space.  We show our approach and the sensing results for a variety of environmental configurations.\
\
Combining the multiple snapshots of the local sensed free space, the robot needs a means of building a map.  In the exteroceptive approach, one would use the ability to sense landmark features at a distance and identify and merge their position across several views.  However, in a proprioceptive approach, all sensed information is local.  The opportunities for spotting landmark features between consecutive views are limited.  Our approach is to use the pose graph representation for map-building and add geometric constraints between poses that partially overlap.  The constraints are made from a combination of positional estimates and the alignment of overlapping poses.  We show the quality of maps in a variety of environments.\
\
In the event of visiting the same place twice, we wish to detect the sameness of the location and correct the map to make it consistent.  This is often called the loop-closing or data association problem.  In the case of exteroceptive mapping, this is often achieved by finding a correspondence between sets of landmark features that are similar and then merging the two places in the map.  In the proprioceptive case, the availability of landmark features is scarce.   We instead develop an approach that exploits the properties of confined environments and detects loop-closing events by comparing local environmental topologies.  We show the results of loop-closing events in a variety of environmental junctions.\
\
Once we have constructed the map, the next step is to use the map for exploration and navigation purposes.  In the exteroceptive case, navigating with the map is a localization problem, comparing the sensed environment with the mapped one.  This is also the approach in the proprioceptive case.  However, the localization accuracy along the length of a followed path is more uncertain, so our path-following algorithms are necessarily more robust to this eventuality.   In the exteroceptive case, the act of exploration can be achieved by navigating to the boundaries of the map with no obstacles.  In the proprioceptive case, exploration is achieved by following every tunnel or path until a dead-end is detected.  We show some environments that we successfully map and navigate, as well as some environments that require future work. \
\
\
}