{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 We investigate how proprioceptive sensors can help robots to successfully explore, map and navigate in these types of challenging environments.\
\
Our approach is to use a snake robot with proprioceptive joint sensors capable of knowing its complete internal posture.  From this posture over time, we are able to sweep out the free space of confined pipe-like environments.  With the free space information, we incrementally build a map.  \
\
\
For a complete mapping system, we need to solve the following components: 1) locomotion, 2) sensing, 3) motion estimation, 4) map representation, 5) map correction technique, 6) navigation and exploration policy.  Locomotion is the weakest point since it is a simulation and assumptions are made about the environment.\
\
\
In this thesis, we use a snake robot in a physics simulation environment to develop a theoretical framework to map confined spaces with no external sensors.  With our simulation running the Bullet physics engine, we create a number of flat pipe-like environments in which our robot will explore and map.\
\
We choose a snake robot form as our mapping robot due to its flexibility in moving through tight spaces and the large number of joint sensors from which we can extract environmental information. By pushing against the walls on either side of the pipe to form anchors and pulling the body forward, we achieve snake locomotion with a variation on the biological snake concertina gait.\
\
Though we do not simulate any sensor-inhibiting fluid in the environment or sensor-failure scenarios, we prohibit ourselves from using any type of external sensor, be it touch sensors, vision sensors, or range sensors such laser range-finders and sonar.  Additionally, we do not allow ourselves to use any type of global positioning system since it is not practical to expect GPS to function underground.  The only sensors we permit ourselves to use are joint sensors.\
\
To build the features of the environment, our robot sweeps its body through the environment and captures the free space through its body posture.   The free space becomes our dominant feature in map-making.   We use the pose graph representation for map-making, where at each pose, we build a local free space map.  We choose the geometric constraints between poses to ensure the correctness of the map.\
\
We present several example environments, and we demonstrate the robot\'92s mapping and navigation results using our framework.   Our metric for success for determining the quality of a map is measured by selecting a random location on the map and judging how well the robot reliably navigates to that location in the world.\
}