{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
##Compliant Motion\
\
In the previous section, we mentioned compliance but not our implementation.  Compliant motion is a much used technique in robotics and has been discussed widely (cite).  The two approaches are either passive or active compliance.  Our approach is to use passive compliance since we have no means to detect contact or sense obstacles.\
\
Passive compliance is achieved by changing the settings on the max torque parameter of each joint's servo controller.  We use a high setting for active motion, a low setting for compliant motion, and zero for keeping the joint unactuated.\
\
Besides using a compliance merge to mechanically isolate two behaviors, we also use compliance as an exploration strategy.  Since we have no exteroception, the only way to discover walls and obstacles is to collide with them.  Compliant impacts with obstacles have a couple benefits.  It prevents the force of the impact from transmitting to the body of the snake and possibly causing anchor slip.   It also allows the joints of the snake to give out and take the shape of the environment around it.  \
\
This latter benefit is one of our primary means of sensing and exploring the environment.  By passively letting the snake robot assume the shape of the environment, it guides our mapping and our locomotion.  Until we have mapped out open space and boundaries, we have no way of directing our robot towards them beyond colliding with the unknown.}