{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The mapping of confined spaces is a recurring theme in the research literature.  Work has been done to navigate and map underground abandoned mines [Thrun04] with large wheeled robots traveling through the constructed corridors.  Although the environment is large enough to make use of vision and range sensors, its location underground makes the use of GPS technologies problematic.  \
\
Robotic pipe inspection has been studied for a long time [Fukuda89], but usually requires that the pipe be evacuated. The robotic solutions are often tailored for a specific pipe size and pipe structure with accompanying sensors that are selected for the task.  Often the solutions are manually remote-controlled with a light and camera for navigation.\
\
Other work has focused on the exploration of flooded subterranean environments such as sinkholes [Gary08] and beneath sea-ice or glaciers.  This involves the use of a submersible robot and underwater sonar for sensing.\
\
Other work has approach the problem of identifying features in the absence of external sensors.  This work comes from the robotic grasping literature and is described as \'93contact detection\'94.  That is, the identification and reconstruction of object contacts from the joint sensors of the grasping end effector.  These include Kaneko, Grupen, Haidacher, Mimura.\
\
Finally, in addition to our early 2009 paper on this concept [Everist09], another researcher tackled the problem of mapping a confined and opaque environment of a pipe junction in an oil well bore hole deep underground [Mazzini11].  Mazzini\'92s approach focuses on mapping one local area of the underground oil well and uses physical probing to reconstruct the local features while anchored to a single reference frame.  \
 \
}