{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 One of the fundamental challenges of exploring environments with no ability to sense at a distance, there is no quick way to distinguish a wall from the limit of arm extension.  That is, when the robot's body sweeps and reaches the limit of its motion, by either collision, slip, or complete extension, there is no way to immediately distinguish that the boundary of its swept space is an obstacle or just more free space. [complete extension is well-defined, therefore, it can be tagged when complete extension is made.  Planned motion vs. actual motion. ]\
\
Though we can reason and safely map long tubes with hard turns or curved and undulating paths, if we add junctions to the mix such as Y and T junctions, recognizing the encounter and the parameters of the junction becomes especially challenging.\
\
We define a junction to be the confluence of over two pipes at various angles.  For instance, an L bend we do not consider a junction, but a T is a junction.  To see how this is challenging, imagine the Figure [X] where the robot's body is within the L junction.  Similarly, the robot's body is in the T-junction in the same configuration.  Both position's give us the shape of the environment correctly.  However, we can only partially view the junction at any given time.\
\
In order to sense and completely characterize the T-junction, the robot would be need pass through or back up and make an effort to crawl down the neglected path.  If we knew that the unexplored pipe existed, this would be an easy proposition.  As it stands, it is very difficult to distinguish an opening from an obstacle.\
\
There are deliberative ways to completely map and characterize the environment as we travel.  The work of Mazzini and Dubowsky [cite] demonstrate a tactile probing approach to harsh and opaque environments.  Though this option is available to us, this has it's own challenges and drawbacks.\
\
For one, tactile probing is time consuming.  A robot would be spending all of its time touching the walls of the environment in a small range and not enough time exploring the environment in the larger range.  We decided very early on in our research [Everist2009] that although contact detection approaches have proven their effectiveness in producing detailed environmental maps, they are not a practical solution to exploring complex environments that won't take multiple days to complete.\
\
Similarly, the act of probing and sweeping the environment has the possibility of disrupting the position of the robot and adding defects to the contact data locations.  Tactile probing is particularly vulnerable to this since it involves actual pushing against obstacles and possibly disrupting the robot's anchors.\
\
For all of these reasons, it is desirable to find an approach for mapping environments with junctions when the junctions are only partially observable.  That is, at best, we do not know if we are in a junction until we come through it a second time.  Often times, junction discovery is serendipitous because openings look identical to obstacles in a free space map.  Without deliberate tactile probing, junction discovery will always be serendipitous for rapid mapping.\
\
Take for instance the 3-point T junction shown in Figure [X].  There are three possible occupancy states for the robot to fit into the junction.   As we can see, states 0 and 1 together give us a complete representation of the junction.  However, it is not clear from just the estimated poses and local spline curves of the data that they should be matched up together.  There is ambiguity in their relationship since the poses can be arranged in a number of different configurations that represent completely plausible environments.\
\
In order to reduce this ambiguity, we need additional observations of the junctions increase the likelihood that they fit together into a T junction.  In particular, if the robot goes from state 0 to state 2 and back to state 1, this would give us a blueprint to fit all of the poses together to create a complete T junction. \
\
Even though the data set we have gives us a very strong case for the detection of a T junction, there are still other possibilities in the event of poor motion estimation.  Other plausible environments from the given data are shown in Figure X.\
\
As we can see, the approach of mapping junctions using only free space data has its challenges.  There is no full proof way to map a junction using only partial observations with ambiguous resultant data.  However, we will see if a probabilistic approach will give us to cut through the ambiguity and focus our efforts on the most likely cases.  Furthermore, it could direct our efforts to make a costly targeted contact probing effort at the most likely junction location and resolve all confusion.\
\
When making the hypothesis of a junction, we have some leeway on its location depending on the type of junction states of the composing local medial axes.  As seen in Figure [X], if a junction has been hypothesize by the a local medial axis diverging from its parent path at location A with the shown junction state, there are a continuum of possible locations it could be at that are completely consistent.  Though these possibilities are constrained by the estimated positions, these possibilities give us our search space for fixing the final product.\
\
If we were to finally add in the local medial axis B in the depicted junction state, the freedom of movement gives us the option of resolving any conflicts and making the junction whole with the composed poses.  The ambiguity places boundaries on the search space.\
\
We call these unresolved junction arms to be 
\i phantom arms
\i0 .  We suspect that a junction arm exists, but we do not know until we actually explore them.  Furthermore, we do not know the junction's location until we have an extra pose in the correct junction state, or we have gathered evidence that a junction does not exist and decreased its probability.\
\
\
}