{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The topology of a path is computed from the union of all of the poses' alpha hulls classified into that particular path.  The hull is populated with points in a grid and the medial axis is computed using the skeletonization (?) algorithm.  \
\
Given the set of points that are the skeletonization image, the pixels are converted into nodes of a graph, and edges are added between them if they are adjacent or diagonal neighbors.  The pixel indices are converted back into global coordinates to give us a set of points that are nodes in a graph, edges connecting to their neighbors.\
\
We reduce the graph first by finding its MST.  Then we prune the tree by snipping off one node off of leaves.   This removes any obvious MST noise artifacts but preserves real branches of the tree.\
\
Paths are computed between each pair of leaves.  We classify each node that has a degree > 2 as a junction and possible branch point for the target path we are trying to build.   On each leaf-pairwise paths, we find the point on that path that passes through the junction.\
\
In the case that there exists no junction or branching point close to the pre-existing branch point, we create a separate graph that includes a theoretical branch with the previously computed parameters.  These parameters come from past computations of the path topologies.  We know that a branch exists but it may have been erroneously smoothed out due to the addition of new poses in non-optimal locations.\
\
The theoretical branch is computed by taking the orientation of the historic junction point, finding the closest node on the graph to the historical junction point, and extruding a new branch on the tree from this point.   A series of uniform points are computed to represent this branch that terminates at the boundary of the alpha hull.\
\
Each leaf-to-leaf path on the medial axis is extrapolated at the tips to intersect and terminate at the boundary of the alpha hull.  This adds further usable information to the produced curve and in practice is a correct extrapolation of the environmental topology.   \
\
We select the longest leaf-to-leaf path that includes the branching arm of the junction from its parent path.   The portion of the path that branches is the portion that we are interested for the current path.  The portion that is not branching is overlapping its parent path.  This information can be used to help localize the branching point with respect to the parent path.\
\
We then compute the trimmed version of the computed topology path.  At the junction point, the path is cut and only the remaining portion that forms the branching arms is kept.  This portion is the final path portion and does not include any portion of its parent.  \
\
When using these path fragments, we splice them together in various hypothesized configurations to determine if our robot's posture fits into any previous paths and junctions.  This splicing is helpful for localization and navigation when exploring the environment.\
\
\
}