{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Another use we have for the raw medial axis computations is to take the points of the raw super-axis, give them orientations, and run generalized ICP between the child and parent path medial axes to help with localizing the location and orientation of the branching point.   Furthermore, this helps with the correspondence problem as well when comparing two sibling paths to see if they are representing the same branching point.\
\
The way it works is like this.  The medial axis of the union of the nodes of the path produce a graph tree that represents the topology of the local environment\'92s space.  The path is classified by it\'92s occupancy of the space branching from the parent path.  But there is vestigial space information because the nodes often overlap more than one path class.  Instead of throwing away this information, as we do in the trimming function, we can reuse this information to assist in localizing the location of the branch point from the parent path.  \
\
As seen in Figure X, a straight-forward ICP process can be used to correct the location of an obviously misplaced branch point.  The length of the vestigial branches is limited to the probing length of the exploring robot.  With a minimum occupancy of the branching path by a probe\'92s pose, the vestigial branch can be as long as the robot\'92s probing length.  This is location feature information that can be matched to previously explored environments.\
\
Furthermore, this information can also give us indications of whether a new branch should be made if the vestigial branches extend beyond the parent path or whether two branches should be merged as one, solving the correspondence problem of branches which we show in a later section.\
\
The ICP process alone will localize the branch point to only local minima locations.  However, since the ICP algorithm is relatively cheap, we can use a Bayesian particle filter approach to hypothesize multiple branch point locations.  At each step of the particle filter, we use the ICP algorithm to localize the hypothesized branch points to local minima.  These hypothesized locations are then evaluated based on their quality of fit, assigned probabilities, and extraneous hypotheses are culled. }