{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 We choose to use the Bullet physics engine (version 2.77) because it is free, open source, mature, and actively developed.  Though it is primarily designed for games and animation, it is acceptable to our robotics application.  Our primary requisites are simulation stability and accurate modeling of friction and contact forces.   True friction and contact modeling are not available to us without specially designed simulation software at a monetary and performance speed cost. 
\b  Our choice of Bullet gives us believable results so long as we do not demand too much and try to simulate challenging situations
\b0  (e.g. high speed, high mass, 1000s of contact points).\
\
We focus our attention on environments such as the one depicted in Figure \\ref\{env1\}.  We build a flat plane and place a number of vertical walls to create a pipe-like maze environment.  All environments we study are flat and have no vertical components.  This means we need only focus on building 2D maps to represent the environment.  From here on in this paper, we refer to such environments as pipes even though they may not correspond to the even and regular structures of physical utility pipes.\
\
A snake robot is placed in the pipe environment as shown in Figure \\ref\{env1\}.  The snake robot consists of regular rectangular segments connected by actuated hinge joints.  Each of the joint axes is parallel and coming out of the ground plane.  This means the snake has no means to lift its body off the ground because all of its joints rotate in the plane of the ground.  It is only capable of pushing against the walls and sliding along the ground.  We choose a reduced capability snake robot because we wish to focus on the mapping problem instead of the more general serpentine control problem.\
\
We can parameterize the snake and the pipe environment.  For the snake robot, $l$ is the snake segment length, $w$ is the segment width, $N$ is the number of segments connected by $N-1$ joints, and $m$ is the maximum torque capable by each of the joint motors.\
\
For the environment, we can begin by defining the pipe width $W$.  For a pipe with parallel and constant walls, this is a straightforward definition as seen in Figure \\ref\{env2\}.  For non-regular features, we define the pipe width at a given point on one wall to be the distance to the closest point on the opposing wall.  This correctly captures the fact that a robot that is wider than the smallest pipe width $W$ will be unable to travel through that smallest width and will create a non-traversable pinch point.  Conversely, a pipe width $W$ that is larger than the reach of a robot will become a void space that the robot will have difficulty completely sensing without the aid of external sensors.  For both the minimum and maximum pipe widths of a given environment, we define $W_\{min\}$ and $W_\{max\}$ respectively where $W_\{min\} \\leq W_i \\leq W_\{max\}$ where $W_i$ is the pipe width at some point on wall $p_i$ of the pipe environment.\
\
\
\
\
\
}